README.md, before:

# language_model_from_scratch_pytorch
a manageable and trainable language model in PyTorch

This is my first attempt to build a language model in PyTorch in preparation for the NLP class of the course *Introduction to AI* in Peking University.

- - -
The project contains 2 Python scripts:
- `dataload.py`: A dataset class derived from `torch.utils.data.Dataset`, you can choose your txt file and load it. By the way, it can also generate word vectors (although we might not use them).
- `lgg_model.py`: A language model class, which now contains a vallina LSTM model, you can add your own model classes to it and use them in the `train.ipynb` below.

also, there are 2 jupyter notebooks:
- `train.ipynb`: A notebook for training. You can choose different data and use `dataload.py` to load it and choose different models to train. Be sure to have installed tensorboard to see the training process.
- `generate.py`: A notebook for generating text. To run this notebook, you need a word model trained and saved in folder `word_model_paths` and a language model trained and saved in folder `lgg_model_paths`.

- - - 
Feel free to change the hyperparameters and optimize the language model.

The main problem of this model is that it lacks learning rate decay and batch normalization, which I will add in the near future.

Commit message:

add lr decay, increase hidden size, train model

README.md, after:

[toc]
# language_model_from_scratch_pytorch
a manageable and trainable language model in PyTorch

This is my first attempt to build a language model in PyTorch in preparation for the NLP class of the course *Introduction to AI* in Peking University.

- - -
# Brief introduction
The project contains 2 Python scripts:
- [dataload.py](dataload.py): A dataset class derived from `torch.utils.data.Dataset`, you can choose your txt file and load it. By the way, it can also generate word vectors (although we might not use them).
- [lgg_model.py](lgg_model.py): A language model class, which now contains a vallina LSTM model, you can add your own model classes to it and use them in the [train.ipynb](train.ipynb) below.

also, there are 2 jupyter notebooks:
- [train.ipynb](train.ipynb): A notebook for training. You can choose different data and use [dataload.py](dataload.py) to load it and choose different models to train. Be sure to have installed tensorboard to see the training process.
- [generate.ipynb](generate.ipynb): A notebook for generating text. To run this notebook, you need a word model trained and saved in folder `word_model_paths` and a language model trained and saved in folder `lgg_model_paths`.

- - - 
# For developers
Feel free to change the hyperparameters and optimize the language model.

The main problem of this model is that it lacks learning rate decay and batch normalization, which I will add in the near future.

- - -
# LOGS
## 2022/2/26
First developed this model, which needs more refinement.
## 2022/2/27
Add a **learning rate decay scheduler** to the optimizer, which leads to better results.
Also, for larger corpus, we can increase the hidden size from 50 to 100 to increase the number of parameters, which will enhance the expressiveness of the model and decrease the loss.
In the near future, more features, such as new model architectures, jieba based word separation and more powerful optimizing techniques, will be added.
